let's say for a moment that you're the
kind of person who takes cyber security
super serial you use a password manager
with multi-factor everything you keep
all your programs and operating systems
up to date and you're constantly keeping
a vigilant eye out for phishing attacks
that is all
really good stuff that we should
actually all do
but
none of it will do you a bit of good if
an attacker actually gets your hardware
in their hands like physically
that is unless you're using a
tamper-proof orwell computer from design
shift a pc that needs a password
and a fob
just to boot up and that apparently will
disable itself
permanently if we mess with it
challenge accepted by the way
speaking of challenges this was a
challenging segue to ek water blocks
phoenix lineup is their next generation
high performance all-in-one cooler check
it out now at the link in the video
description
[Music]
named for george orwell every one of
these tiny yet shockingly heavy little
machines has its own unique encryption
key one that is totally unknown even to
the manufacturer design shift it's a
time rotating rsa 4096 key so that is
over 4 000 bits long and what it means
is that it is practically impossible to
brute force so for reference the largest
rsa number that's ever been factored was
only
768 bits long and that took hundreds of
computers over two years to figure out
now this encryption key is not stored in
main memory or on the self-encrypting
ssd but rather in a security
microcontroller that only exposes it
briefly when a user is authenticated
like as you're booting up as for how to
authenticate well two-factor of course
orwell comes with two special key fobs
that must be scanned on the machine
before you'll even be prompted to enter
your numeric password using orwell's
oled display and only then does the
machine boot up and then you will still
need to enter credentials for windows
ubuntu
cubes os or whatever your fobs use nfc
for the initial setup then once they're
paired the java card applet on the fob
that's responsible for pairing is
actually deleted and from then on the
fobs communicate their distance from
orwell over encrypted low energy
bluetooth and the machine will actually
lock down if you get more than 10 meters
away in lockdown mode orwell's ports
that's two five gigabit usb type cs for
power and peripherals and a mini hdmi
for the display are shut off so no one
can plug in their stuxnet flash drive or
boot the computer using an external
device and the cpu is put to sleep
that is unless the main board secure
mcu's three axis accelerometers and
gyroscopes detect movement at which time
it will actually be powered completely
off forcing a potential hacker to build
their lab around the machine
rather than carrying it away to be
prodded at in privacy
okay then linus
what if i go around the mcu by freezing
it with a spray refrigerant
well since the mcu also monitors for
drastic temperature changes freezing it
will actually result in orwell
destroying the encryption key
and even if you could freeze the ram for
example which typically retains
information for a few seconds after
being powered down you'd have a hard
time reading anything from it because it
is soldered onto the board and going at
it the other way isn't an option either
the boot sequence is designed to wipe
the ram before post to prevent attackers
from somehow inserting code into the
memory during boot
i mean
most of that stuff though is kind of
hypothetical anyway because you probably
would never get that far the entire
system is physically tamper proof and
i'm not talking about a handful of
pressure sensors that you can just drill
holes around and disable no no the
entire system in addition to the main
board mcu and the mcu and the fob the
system is wrapped in a conductive dye
shield with multiple pressure switches
and a wire mesh barrier this protects
against physical ingress and certain
side channel attacks like over-the-air
power analysis since no meaningful power
leakage will make it through the die
shield and if you disturb any of that
stuff the encryption key gets nuked
and all of this works even without
orwell being plugged in since the main
board mcu's onboard battery can actually
last for several months now to be clear
security features like this have been
around for years in some industries but
design shifts pitch is that they're
delivering bank level information
security for everyone without changing
the overall user experience
and they're actually mostly there
the fobs are a little too bulky right
now in my opinion and while they are
rechargeable over micro usb they lack a
battery indicator light so when they die
and your orwell locks down you're gonna
have a bad time but
once you're logged into orwell it
behaves just like a regular computer as
advertised
so that's really cool
but i still think their audience will
end up being somewhat limited the orwell
breezed through our thermal tests
staying relatively quiet without
throttling but even the top tier model
sticks you with a mobile processor eight
gigs of ram and integrated graphics and
that's at three times the cost of a
similarly spec'd tablet computer
to be clear that could be considered
cheap compared to some of the other
options that are out there and there are
definitely going to be customers for
this tech but i just have to wonder if
the next step for design shift has to be
a notebook to give extra flexibility to
anyone who wants to take his or her
secure computing
on the road
alright then
with all that out of the way let's see
if we can lose our data
after this message from tunnelbear
tunnelbear is the simple vpn app that
makes it easy to browse privately and
enjoy a more open internet with
tunnelbear turned on your wi-fi
connection is secured and your online
activity is kept private from your
internet provider advertisers and anyone
else looking to track you or profit from
your data tunnelbear has a top rated
privacy policy and does not log your
activity so go try tunnelbear for free
with no credit card required at
tunnelbear.com
ltt we're going to have that linked
below
[Music]
do
so thanks for watching guys if this
video sucked you know what to do but if
it was awesome get subscribed hit that
like button or check out the link to
where to buy the stuff we featured
there it is at the link in the video
description also link down there is our
merch store which has cool shirts like
this one and our community forum which
you should totally join